## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2021/10/21

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Alan King, Kory Draughn, David Fellinger, Josh Moore (Dundee / OMERO), Valeria Mazzano (NYU Langone), Ken Langley (UNC SOM-IT), Rolf Harkes (NKI - Netherlands Cancer Institute), Marjolijn Mertz (NKI - Netherlands Cancer Institute), Michelle Itano (UNC Microscopy), Mathias Hammer (UMASSmed), Nirav Merchant (CyVerse / UArizona), Caterina Strambio-De-Castillia (UMass Medical School), Krenchicky Castro (NYU Langone), Ken Ho (Crick, UK)

## Minutes

 - NGFF next meeting is December, but not scheduled yet
   - If interested, get in touch with Josh Moore
 - What steps can we take to prepare the ground for when someone is ready to type/code?
   - Possible technical presentations of existing stack(s)
   - Tiny Proofs of Concept, scratch a simple itch, see if any patterns emerge
     - Via OMERO API - then talking to iRODS API
 - Seeking clarity on primary use case / pain point for this integration
   - Adding lifecycle planning to OMERO data
   - Adding imaging client/tooling to iRODS data
   - Sharing data at scale, across users / labs / institutions
   - Registration of existing data in iRODS, then add tooling (OMERO)
   - Retention (aka can we ever delete this stuff?  Who decides?  When?)
 - CyVerse, currently holding a 100TB cache for OMEROâ€¦ purged over time
   - Tagging-based awareness between systems
   - Could be a use case for iRODS Storage Tiering
   - HPC is at TACC (Texas), staging is in the background / automatic / local
   - Michelle: even just migration between workstations would be useful
   - During training... iDrop on workstations into shared space, overwhelmed network
 - TODO:
   - Terrell to make a new picture (v2, with more EventLog from OMERO -> iRODS)
   - iRODS to learn some OMERO API
   - Terrell/Josh - OMERO event, trigger tiny (Python) script to inform iRODS of new file
     - Tag in OMERO as 'registered'
     - Unit of work is either single file, single directory, or list of specific files
     - Parameter could be 'where in iRODS', rather than hard-coded
     - Parameters could also be users/permissions/metadata
   - Any code can live in this working group repository
     - We'll plan to use GitHub issues
 - Next Meeting:
   - Jan 2022

