## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2023/08/17

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Kory Draughn, Martin Flores, Alan King, Tatiana Woller (KU Leuven), Nirav Merchant (CyVerse / UArizona), Ander Astudillo (SURF), Alice Stuart-Lee (SURF), Ken Ho (Crick, UK)

## Minutes

 - Updates
   - Still needing to decide where the dotted line between OMERO data and iRODS data - responsibility of each
   - Which way does the data flow - both directions?
     - Maybe just OMERO -> iRODS is enough.
     - Arizona - Bisque aware of metadata, iRODS is not
       - A vote for 'not worrying about getting metadata back to OMERO' for now
   - No changes in OMERO is the goal - just a drop down / script to provide 'Save As'
 - Configuration - primary use case / path….
   - Generated data -> landing zone -> slurp with ownership
   - Real world usage… need shared file systems, visibility becoming key
 - Takeaway
   - One/two use cases may be enough - define the future, doesn't have to be perfect
   - Smaller hackathon, slightly more than a proof-of-concept
   - 1 - 'Save As' script for OMERO interface
   - 2 - Maybe look at getting info back to OMERO (e.g. for searching)
 - Netherlands bioimaging consortium, still planning to meet in the next month or two
 - RSpace and iRODS - RSpace already has an OMERO integration
   - think it's only one direction
 - REDCap - biomedical imaging - landing zone with manifest, REDCAP lookup, then saves accordingly
 - Next Meeting
   - Sept 2023
