## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2023/07/20

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Kory Draughn, Ken Ho (Crick, UK), Tatiana Woller (KU Leuven), Ingrid Barcena (KU Leuven), Valeria Mezzano Robinson (NYU Langone), Ander Astudillo (SURF)

## Minutes

 - ELMI Report
   - Effort to design/draw a shared vision for BioImage Town Metro Maps
     - https://forum.image.sc/t/welcome-to-bioimage-town/82998 
   - Tatiana will ask Josh about another image, not yet posted (FAIRer, data management for imaging)
   - Quarep-Limi Workgroup 7, Subgroup 3 - Metadata Specification and Storage
     - What metadata are, where is data stored, how does it flow, operated on?
     - https://quarep.org/ 
   - Multimodal imaging, same issues, common interests
   - RO-Crate and LinkML	
     - https://www.researchobject.org/ro-crate/
     - https://forum.image.sc/t/ro-crate-and-omero/80610 
 - iRODS UGM Report
   - https://irods.org/ugm2023/
 - Ander: meeting with SURF and others
   - New bioimaging consortium has not yet met to discuss the steps
   - Discussing running iRODS/OMERO across the whole of the Netherlands
   - Federated, everyone owns their own data, can integrate as needed/desired
 - Looking for focused time/effort to develop next steps
   - Perhaps through SURF/NKI, and Groningen
 - Next Meeting
   - Aug 2023
