## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2024/07/17

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Alan King, Josh Moore (GerBI / OME), Nirav Merchant (CyVerse / UArizona)

## Minutes

 - Roundtrip snapshot / Serialization of OMERO to (and from) iRODS via PRC
   - Save - done
   - Load - not yet
 - Register (AbsorbRawFile) - not yet
   - Direct from iRODS existing file into OMERO
   - omero import, rather than transfer
 - forum.image.sc
   - Thread announcing intent as community partner
     - https://forum.image.sc/t/irods-would-like-to-join-as-a-community-partner/98894
     - Need blurb for official account/posting
   - Would announce and conduct meetings 'from' the forum
   - Would continue to keep minutes and code in repository
 - C++ 'synthetic' iRODS resource or rule engine plugin
   - load a python library / binary to do the operations
   - would allow testing / exploration of new file-based synthetic filesets
     - zarr - lots of existing language libraries
       - Latest https://github.com/abcucberkeley/cpp-zarr/
   - Terrell: “lot of enthusiasm” :)
   - Bisque - have a layer of cache, and operate locally, and then push changes to separate/actual storage
     - Bisque is populated with webhook - and remembers for a time - but bisque 'knows' that data is available/ready to load
 - SciPy - https://github.com/bluesky/tiled 
   - Looking at taking 'all' resources and pushing it 'through' zarr format/interface
   - CyVerse already caching byte-range requests, just because of usage patterns
 - Think of this project / integration as an 'appliance'
   - Admins lose sleep in a cost-recovery environment, need to be able to predict
   - Faciilty managers can understand a layer to remove their need to manage data placement / movement
 - Next Meeting
   - August 2024
