## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2024/08/15

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Alan King, Josh Moore (GerBI / OME), Nirav Merchant (CyVerse / UArizona)

## Minutes

 - OMERO integration
   - Roundtrip snapshot - serialization of OMERO data to/from iRODS via PRC
     - Save - done
     - Load - not yet
   - Register (AbsorbRawFile) - not yet
     - Direct from iRODS existing file into OMERO (via omero import)
 - forum.image.sc
   - Accepted and complete, posted about this meeting there
 - C++ 'synthetic' iRODS resource or rule engine plugin
   - load a python library / binary to do the operations
   - PREP already does something like this
 - (Virtual) Appliance / Recipe
   - How to help a lab / lab director to not worry about data management / placement
   - Possible survey of community?   What are the desires / use cases?
   - Separating application vs infrastructure vs workflows
   - Lab directors should think / define 'data products'
     - A workflow per data product
     - Easily an 80% solution available with pieces today
     - Can easily track / charge scientists for service and/or storage
 - Next Meeting
   - Sept 2024
