## Imaging Working Group Minutes

Thursday, 2025/08/21

10:00 am ET

## Attendees:

Terrell Russell, Kory Draughn, Alan King, Josh Moore (GerBI / OME)

## Minutes

 - IntegrationExercise1 - iRODS S3 API
   - https://incommon.org/software/grouper/ 
   - Josh pushing to his zarr-pixel-buffer branch in his fork of this repo
     - watch that space
   - Idr is on track to move all data to sandbox testing solution
   - Aligned with the current direction of the zarr community
   - EBI talking about getting rid of all on-premises storage, cloud only
     - Also aligned with this direction here
   - Interested in measurements for concurrency and speed
 - New idea alert!  Making up words ahead!!!
   - Hierarchical presigned urls
   - encode/sign an entire tree under a particular root path/key?
   - A wildcardâ€¦ or a flag that says treat this path as a prefix / magical
   - Permissions?  Majority of s3 permissions are at the bucket level
   - Presigned url is tied to the user who issued it (along with the permission) and is also tied to the verb that is signed (put vs get)
   - Host-based access is 'pre-approved' and good enough in the AWS world
     - Not as useful in the public data sphere
 - IntegrationExercise2 - Java FileSystemProvider class to talk to iRODS
   - Not as interesting at the moment
   - irods4j has proven easy enough to be used/integrated
 - Next Meeting
   - September 2025
